amq/amq62-persistent.adoc, before:

= amq62-persistent
 
Modified version based on https://github.com/jboss-openshift/application-templates/blob/master/docs/amq/amq62-persistent.adoc

Application template for JBoss A-MQ brokers. These can be deployed as standalone and use persistent storage for saving messages. This template doesn't feature SSL support.

== Parameters

Templates allow you to define parameters which take on a value. That value is then substituted wherever the parameter is referenced.
References can be defined in any text field in the objects list field. Refer to the
https://docs.openshift.org/latest/architecture/core_concepts/templates.html#parameters[Openshift documentation] for more information.

|=======================================================================
|Variable name |Image Environment Variable |Description |Example value |Required

|`APPLICATION_NAME` | -- | The name for the application. | broker | True
|`MQ_PROTOCOL` | -- | Protocols to configure, separated by commas.  Allowed values are: `openwire`, `amqp`, `stomp` and `mqtt`. | openwire | False
|`MQ_QUEUES` | `AMQ_QUEUES` | Queue names, separated by commas.  These queues will be automatically created when the broker starts.  If left empty, queues will be still created dynamically. | `${MQ_QUEUES}` | False
|`MQ_TOPICS` | `AMQ_TOPICS` | Topic names, separated by commas.  These topics will be automatically created when the broker starts.  If left empty, topics will be still created dynamically. | `${MQ_TOPICS}` | False
|`VOLUME_CAPACITY` | -- | Size of persistent storage for database volume. | 512Mi | True
|`MQ_USERNAME` | `AMQ_USER` | User name for standard broker user.  It is required for connecting to the broker.  If left empty, it will be generated. | `${MQ_USERNAME}` | False
|`MQ_PASSWORD` | `AMQ_PASSWORD` | Password for standard broker user.  It is required for connecting to the broker.  If left empty, it will be generated. | `${MQ_PASSWORD}` | False
|`AMQ_STORAGE_USAGE_LIMIT` | `AMQ_STORAGE_USAGE_LIMIT` | The A-MQ storage usage limit | 100 gb | False
|`IMAGE_STREAM_NAMESPACE` | -- | Namespace in which the ImageStreams for Red Hat Middleware images are installed. These ImageStreams are normally installed in the openshift namespace. You should only need to modify this if you've installed the ImageStreams in a different namespace/project. | openshift | True
|=======================================================================



== Objects

The CLI supports various object types. A list of these object types as well as their abbreviations
can be found in the https://docs.openshift.org/latest/cli_reference/basic_cli_operations.html#object-types[Openshift documentation].


=== Services

A service is an abstraction which defines a logical set of pods and a policy by which to access them. Refer to the
https://cloud.google.com/container-engine/docs/services/[container-engine documentation] for more information.

|=============
|Service        |Port  | Description

|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq-amqp` | 5672 | The broker's AMQP port.
|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq-mqtt` | 1883 | The broker's MQTT port.
|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq-stomp` | 61613 | The broker's STOMP port.
|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq-tcp` | 61616 | The broker's OpenWire port.
|=============






=== Deployment Configurations

A deployment in OpenShift is a replication controller based on a user defined template called a deployment configuration. Deployments are created manually or in response to triggered events.
Refer to the https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/3.0/dev_guide/deployments.html#creating-a-deployment-configuration[Openshift documentation] for more information.


==== Triggers

A trigger drives the creation of new deployments in response to events, both inside and outside OpenShift. Refer to the
https://access.redhat.com/beta/documentation/en/openshift-enterprise-30-developer-guide#triggers[Openshift documentation] for more information.

|============
|Deployment | Triggers

|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq` | ImageChange
|============



==== Replicas

A replication controller ensures that a specified number of pod "replicas" are running at any one time.
If there are too many, the replication controller kills some pods. If there are too few, it starts more.
Refer to the https://cloud.google.com/container-engine/docs/replicationcontrollers/[container-engine documentation]
for more information.

|============
|Deployment | Replicas

|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq` | 1
|============


==== Pod Template




===== Image

|============
|Deployment | Image

|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq` | jboss-amq-62
|============



===== Readiness Probe


.${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq
----
/bin/bash -c /opt/amq/bin/readinessProbe.sh
----




===== Exposed Ports

|=============
|Deployments | Name  | Port  | Protocol

.5+| `${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq`
|jolokia | 8778 | `TCP`
|amqp | 5672 | `TCP`
|mqtt | 1883 | `TCP`
|stomp | 61613 | `TCP`
|tcp | 61616 | `TCP`
|=============



===== Image Environment Variables

|=======================================================================
|Deployment |Variable name |Description |Example value

.6+| `${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq`
|`AMQ_USER` | User name for standard broker user.  It is required for connecting to the broker.  If left empty, it will be generated. | `${MQ_USERNAME}`
|`AMQ_PASSWORD` | Password for standard broker user.  It is required for connecting to the broker.  If left empty, it will be generated. | `${MQ_PASSWORD}`
|`AMQ_TRANSPORTS` | -- | `${MQ_PROTOCOL}`
|`AMQ_QUEUES` | Queue names, separated by commas.  These queues will be automatically created when the broker starts.  If left empty, queues will be still created dynamically. | `${MQ_QUEUES}`
|`AMQ_TOPICS` | Topic names, separated by commas.  These topics will be automatically created when the broker starts.  If left empty, topics will be still created dynamically. | `${MQ_TOPICS}`
|`AMQ_STORAGE_USAGE_LIMIT` | The A-MQ storage usage limit | `${AMQ_STORAGE_USAGE_LIMIT}`
|=======================================================================



=====  Volumes

|=============
|Deployment |Name  | mountPath | Purpose | readOnly 

|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq` | `${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq-pvol` | `/opt/amq/data/kahadb` | kahadb | false
|=============


=== External Dependencies


==== Volume Claims

A `PersistentVolume` object is a storage resource in an OpenShift cluster. Storage is provisioned by an administrator
by creating `PersistentVolume` objects from sources such as GCE Persistent Disks, AWS Elastic Block Stores (EBS), and NFS mounts.
Refer to the https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/3.0/dev_guide/persistent_volumes.html#overview[Openshift documentation] for
more information.

|=============
|Name | Access Mode

|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq-claim` | ReadWriteOnce
|=============

Commit message:

Template v 1.3 upstream update - HA support added

amq/amq62-persistent.adoc, after:

= amq62-persistent
 
Modified version based on https://github.com/jboss-openshift/application-templates/blob/master/docs/amq/amq62-persistent.adoc

Application template for JBoss A-MQ brokers. These can be deployed as standalone and use persistent storage for saving messages. This template doesn't feature SSL support.

== Parameters

Templates allow you to define parameters which take on a value. That value is then substituted wherever the parameter is referenced.
References can be defined in any text field in the objects list field. Refer to the
https://docs.openshift.org/latest/architecture/core_concepts/templates.html#parameters[Openshift documentation] for more information.

|=======================================================================
|Variable name |Image Environment Variable |Description |Example value |Required

|`APPLICATION_NAME` | -- | The name for the application. | broker | True
|`AMQ_SPLIT` | `AMQ_SPLIT` | Split the data directory for each node in a mesh. | false | False
|`MQ_PROTOCOL` | -- | Protocols to configure, separated by commas.  Allowed values are: `openwire`, `amqp`, `stomp` and `mqtt`. | openwire | False
|`MQ_QUEUES` | `AMQ_QUEUES` | Queue names, separated by commas.  These queues will be automatically created when the broker starts.  If left empty, queues will be still created dynamically. | `${MQ_QUEUES}` | False
|`MQ_TOPICS` | `AMQ_TOPICS` | Topic names, separated by commas.  These topics will be automatically created when the broker starts.  If left empty, topics will be still created dynamically. | `${MQ_TOPICS}` | False
|`VOLUME_CAPACITY` | -- | Size of persistent storage for database volume. | 512Mi | True
|`MQ_USERNAME` | `AMQ_USER` | User name for standard broker user.  It is required for connecting to the broker.  If left empty, it will be generated. | `${MQ_USERNAME}` | False
|`MQ_PASSWORD` | `AMQ_PASSWORD` | Password for standard broker user.  It is required for connecting to the broker.  If left empty, it will be generated. | `${MQ_PASSWORD}` | False
|`AMQ_MESH_DISCOVERY_TYPE` | `AMQ_MESH_DISCOVERY_TYPE` | The discovery agent type to use for discovering mesh endpoints.  'dns' will use OpenShift's DNS service to resolve endpoints.  'kube' will use Kubernetes REST API to resolve service endpoints.  If using 'kube' the service account for the pod must have the 'view' role, which can be added via 'oc policy add-role-to-user view system:serviceaccount:<namespace>:default' where <namespace> is the project namespace. | kube | False
|`AMQ_STORAGE_USAGE_LIMIT` | `AMQ_STORAGE_USAGE_LIMIT` | The A-MQ storage usage limit | 100 gb | False
|`IMAGE_STREAM_NAMESPACE` | -- | Namespace in which the ImageStreams for Red Hat Middleware images are installed. These ImageStreams are normally installed in the openshift namespace. You should only need to modify this if you've installed the ImageStreams in a different namespace/project. | openshift | True
|=======================================================================



== Objects

The CLI supports various object types. A list of these object types as well as their abbreviations
can be found in the https://docs.openshift.org/latest/cli_reference/basic_cli_operations.html#object-types[Openshift documentation].


=== Services

A service is an abstraction which defines a logical set of pods and a policy by which to access them. Refer to the
https://cloud.google.com/container-engine/docs/services/[container-engine documentation] for more information.

|=============
|Service        |Port  | Description

|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq-amqp` | 5672 | The broker's AMQP port.
|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq-mqtt` | 1883 | The broker's MQTT port.
|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq-stomp` | 61613 | The broker's STOMP port.
|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq-tcp` | 61616 | The broker's OpenWire port.
|=============






=== Deployment Configurations

A deployment in OpenShift is a replication controller based on a user defined template called a deployment configuration. Deployments are created manually or in response to triggered events.
Refer to the https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/3.0/dev_guide/deployments.html#creating-a-deployment-configuration[Openshift documentation] for more information.


==== Triggers

A trigger drives the creation of new deployments in response to events, both inside and outside OpenShift. Refer to the
https://access.redhat.com/beta/documentation/en/openshift-enterprise-30-developer-guide#triggers[Openshift documentation] for more information.

|============
|Deployment | Triggers

|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq` | ImageChange
|============



==== Replicas

A replication controller ensures that a specified number of pod "replicas" are running at any one time.
If there are too many, the replication controller kills some pods. If there are too few, it starts more.
Refer to the https://cloud.google.com/container-engine/docs/replicationcontrollers/[container-engine documentation]
for more information.

|============
|Deployment | Replicas

|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq` | 1
|============


==== Pod Template




===== Image

|============
|Deployment | Image

|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq` | jboss-amq-62
|============



===== Readiness Probe


.${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq
----
/bin/bash -c /opt/amq/bin/readinessProbe.sh
----




===== Exposed Ports

|=============
|Deployments | Name  | Port  | Protocol

.5+| `${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq`
|jolokia | 8778 | `TCP`
|amqp | 5672 | `TCP`
|mqtt | 1883 | `TCP`
|stomp | 61613 | `TCP`
|tcp | 61616 | `TCP`
|=============



===== Image Environment Variables

|=======================================================================
|Deployment |Variable name |Description |Example value

.10+| `${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq`
|`AMQ_USER` | User name for standard broker user.  It is required for connecting to the broker.  If left empty, it will be generated. | `${MQ_USERNAME}`
|`AMQ_PASSWORD` | Password for standard broker user.  It is required for connecting to the broker.  If left empty, it will be generated. | `${MQ_PASSWORD}`
|`AMQ_TRANSPORTS` | -- | `${MQ_PROTOCOL}`
|`AMQ_QUEUES` | Queue names, separated by commas.  These queues will be automatically created when the broker starts.  If left empty, queues will be still created dynamically. | `${MQ_QUEUES}`
|`AMQ_TOPICS` | Topic names, separated by commas.  These topics will be automatically created when the broker starts.  If left empty, topics will be still created dynamically. | `${MQ_TOPICS}`
|`AMQ_SPLIT` | Split the data directory for each node in a mesh. | `${AMQ_SPLIT}`
|`AMQ_MESH_DISCOVERY_TYPE` | The discovery agent type to use for discovering mesh endpoints.  'dns' will use OpenShift's DNS service to resolve endpoints.  'kube' will use Kubernetes REST API to resolve service endpoints.  If using 'kube' the service account for the pod must have the 'view' role, which can be added via 'oc policy add-role-to-user view system:serviceaccount:<namespace>:default' where <namespace> is the project namespace. | `${AMQ_MESH_DISCOVERY_TYPE}`
|`AMQ_MESH_SERVICE_NAME` | -- | `${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq-tcp`
|`AMQ_MESH_SERVICE_NAMESPACE` | -- | --
|`AMQ_STORAGE_USAGE_LIMIT` | The A-MQ storage usage limit | `${AMQ_STORAGE_USAGE_LIMIT}`
|=======================================================================



=====  Volumes

|=============
|Deployment |Name  | mountPath | Purpose | readOnly

|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq` | `${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq-pvol` | `/opt/amq/data` | kahadb | false
|=============


=== External Dependencies


==== Volume Claims

A `PersistentVolume` object is a storage resource in an OpenShift cluster. Storage is provisioned by an administrator
by creating `PersistentVolume` objects from sources such as GCE Persistent Disks, AWS Elastic Block Stores (EBS), and NFS mounts.
Refer to the https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/3.0/dev_guide/persistent_volumes.html#overview[Openshift documentation] for
more information.

|=============
|Name | Access Mode

|`${APPLICATION_NAME}-amq-claim` | ReadWriteMany
|=============
